# A New Strategy for Predicting Pitch Outcomes in MLB Games
Sabermetrics, the statistical study of baseball, is a growing field. The goal in the discipline is to make baseball entirely objective in order to improve play (as well as to aid Fantasy players). A large step that the discipline is working towards is predicting pitch outcomes. This paper hopes to shed a light on better techniques for predicting whether a batter hits the ball into fair territory during their at bat, regardless of how the fielders handle it. It does so by making distinctions about cumulative pitch outcomes for hitters and pitchers for specific areas of the strike zone, using a dataset of every pitch thrown in a regular season Major League Baseball game between 2017 and 2018. Unfortunately, this data is extremely corrupted. After creating a nearly exhaustive list of possible predictors for pitch outcomes, nine increasingly nuanced logistic regression models are created using an unfortunately subjective system. Ultimately, because of the subjective process that created the models and the issues with the data, all of the models have very poor calibration and discrimination, but two models that utilize the new variables, one which utilizes zone specified statistics over 2017 through 2018, and one which multiplies those respective statistics for the batter and pitcher together, perform the best with two of the best calibrations, having p-values of $P=0.0005795$ and $P=8.867e-7$ from Hosmer-Lemeshow tests, and two of the best discrimination abilities, with concordance-indices of $C=0.6314$ and $C=0.6467$. The models' predictive abilities were still very poor, but showed that these novel variables could be helpful in predicting pitch outcomes even more accurately in future studies.

Final_Project.html is a complete writeup of the analysis and results, and Final_Project.Rmd can be referenced for the relevent code. 

Baseball Dataframe.Rmd is the code for building and cleaning the dataset utilized in the analysis, and Savant Data Codebook.pdf is the accompanying codebook for the dataset.
